=head1 NAME

aviz - AViz Visualize results of atomistic simulations.


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<aviz> [ -B<ar> ] [ -B<as> ] [ -B<at> ] [ -B<az> ] [ -B<asm> ]  
[-B<fl> I<listfile> ] [-B<rm> I<rendermode> ] [ -B<rs> I<renderstyle> ] 
[ -B<rq> I<renderquality> ] [ -B<si> I<rendersize> ] [ -B<snap> ] [ -B<snapq> ]
[ -B<v> ] [ -B<version> ] [ -B<vpm> I<parameterfile> ] [ -B<watch> I<xyzfile> ] [ -B<license> ] [ -B<usage> ] [ -B<h> ] [ -B<help> ]  
[ Qt options] [  X11 options ] [ I<xyzfile> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

AViz is a graphical user interface to visualize the results of atomistic
simulations.  In such simulations, one usually operates with a number of 
particles, each of which representing an atom. The result of the simulation 
typically consists of data files containing the coordinates of all the 
simulated atoms.

AViz can be used to render the simulated particles as little spheres, cubes, or 
dots. It can also be used to render atomistic spins, or any other kind of 
vectors.   Several different shapes and qualities can be used, and 
colors can be assigned to the rendered objects in many different ways.

Command line options include:

=over

=item -B<ar>	Start in auto rotation mode	

=item -B<as>	Start in auto spin mode	

=item -B<at>	Start in auto tilt mode	

=item -B<az>	Start in auto zoom mode	

=item -B<asm>	Start in auto snap mode	

=item -B<fl> I<listfile>	Start using file list I<listfile> 

=item -B<rm> I<rendermode> 	Set rendering mode to I<rendermode> where 
I<renderode> is one of the following: 'atom', 'spin', 'liquidcrystal', 'polymer' or 'pore'

=item -B<rs> I<renderstyle> 	Set rendering style to I<renderstyle> where 
I<renderstyle> is one of the following: 'dots', 'lines', 'cubes', 'cones', 'spheres'  or 'cylinders'

=item -B<rq> I<renderquality>	Set rendering quality to I<renderquality> 
where I<renderquality> is one of the following: 'low', 'high', or 'final'  

=item -B<si> I<rendersize> 	Set size of rendered particles in percentage
relative to AViz' notion of 'natural size', where I<rendersize> is an integer

=item -B<snap> 	Take a screen shot of the rendering at startup

=item -B<snapq>	Take a screen shot of the rendering at startup and exit

=item -B<v(ersion)>	Print version string and exit

=item -B<vpm> I<parameterfile>	Use view parameters specified in 
I<parameterfile> 

=item -B<watch> I<xyzfile>	Update the rendering whenever file I<xyzfile> 
is modified

=item -B<license>	Print the GPL GNU license conditions

=item -B<usage>		Print a short usage information

=item -B<h(elp)>	Print a short usage information

=back

AViz is built using the Qt toolkit and recoginizes most of the standard
Qt and X11 command line options.  

I<xyzfile> is a file that contains simulation data (particle positions, 
velocity vectors, etc.) in a exceedingly simple format known as XYZ format. 
The format for these files is as follows:

=over

=item   1st line: an integer indicating the number of data points

=item 	2nd line: an arbitrary string identifying the data

=item 	following lines: all of the form XX float1 float2 float3 .....

=back

Each of the lines corresponds to one particle. A one- or two-character
string is used to label the particle, as in 'O' or 'Si'. 
Any combination of characters may be chosen. The following three
floating point numbers represent the x-, y-, and z-coordinate of the
particle. Up to eight additional floating point numbers can be
provided. These additional numbers can be used to visualize properties
such as velocity, energy, etc.

AViz recognizes some particular labels such as 'Al' and 'Au'. For
these atom types, a default color is defined. For many other elements,
and for atom types such as 'X3', no default color is defined. AViz
will use a blue color to render particles of ''unknown'' type.

I<parameterfile> is a binary file created by AViz during a previous 
session.  

=head1 NOTES

The AViz interface offers buttons and spin boxes to change the view 
point and various aspects of the rendering, such as colors of the atoms, 
lighting, sizes, annotation, and so on.  The use of these interface 
elements should be self-explanatory.

=head2 File lists

A list of I<xyzfiles>, a so-called I<listfile>,  can be read in, and AViz 
then allows cycling through the list.   Such a list file simply contains 
the name of all files that should be shown, with a new line for each entry.

For convenience, the AViz file selector sports a toolbutton to produce 
a file list including all I<xyzfiles> in the current directory.

=head2 Snapshots and animations

At each stage, a snapshot of the current rendering can be taken 
by generating a PNG image file.   In combination with the command 
line options, AViz offers several possiblities to painlessly generate
a sequence of image files ready to be turned into an animation.


=head1 EXAMPLE 

Here is a short I<xyzfile> of the most simple form, containing
only the three coordinate columns:

	
8
## Cube
C  1.0 0.0 0.0
C  1.0 1.0 0.0
C  0.0 1.0 0.0
C  0.0 1.0 0.0
C  1.0 0.0 1.0
C  1.0 1.0 1.0
C  0.0 1.0 1.0
C  0.0 1.0 1.0

To visualize this data set in file F<cube.xyz> with high-quality rendering 
of spheres, use

	aviz -rq high -rs spheres cube.xyz

Here is a short I<xyzfile> with one additional column of data:

	
6
## Aluminum oxide
O  -0.083333 0.250000 0.583333 0.433013
O  0.083333 -0.250000 -0.583333 -0.433013
O  0.250000 0.583333 -0.083333 0.433013
O  -0.250000 -0.583333 0.083333 -0.433013
Al 0.583333 0.583333 0.583333 1.010363
Al -0.583333 -0.583333 -0.583333 -1.010363

To create a snapshot of this data set in file F<alox.xyz> with top-quality 
rendering of spheres, use

	aviz -snap -rq final -rs spheres cube.xyz

If the data points should be rendered as spins or vectors, each entry 
is defined by six numbers. The first three give the location of the spin, and
the second three give the direction. A sample I<xyzfile> might
look like this:

	
3
## Spins pointing in z-direction
Sp 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.0
Sp 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.0
Sp 2.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.0

To render the spin data in file F<spin.xyz> as high-quality spins and 
update the rendering whenever the file is modified, use

	aviz -rs spins -rq high -watch spin.xyz


=head1 BUGS

Too numerous to list here.  Please send bug reports and comments to
gery@tx.technion.ac.il 


=head1 FILES

=over

=item F<./aviz/aviz.vpm>	If AViz finds the I<parameterfile> 
F<./aviz/aviz.vpm> in the user's home directory, the view parameters stored 
in that file are read and used as defaults  

=item F<.aviz.atom> 	If AViz finds the file F<.aviz/aviz.particle> in 
the user's home directory, the specific particle parameters (colors, color 
criterion, bonding) are read and used as defaults

=back

=head1 RELATED INFORMATION

This software is available under GNU General Public License from 
B<http://phycomp.technion.ac.il/~aviz>.  More information and 
a User's Manual can be found at the same location.

=head1 AUTHORS

Geri Wagner (gery@tx.technion.ac.il) 
Adham Hashibon (phadham@aluf.technion.ac.il)
Computational Physics Group, Technion Haifa Israel
